  Over the past few months I have been able to develop my knowledge on the Digital Humanities (DH) and be able to form my own thinking on how I view it as a whole. At the beginning of the semester I would not have been able to provide a solid definition of what DH truly is. After the first week or two of classes, I would have given a simple definition such as the combination of technology and humanities to serve an educational purpose. After all the readings and various assignments we completed and class, my definition has developed into a more specific one. Now I would define DH as, “the incorporation of digital technologies that allows us to answer and ask questions related to humanities. It allows us to study human culture and the effect technology has on human culture.
  
  The readings throughout the semester definitely helped me understand the course content much better. I especially appreciated the class discussions about them the next day. If I was confused about a certain reading, the discussion made it more clear as to what the point of the reading was. One reading that helped me with my writing was “Shitty First Drafts.” Before this class, I was always trying to make my writing perfect on the first try which led to me getting stressed out and feeling like it was not good enough. The reading helped me realize that your first draft is never going to be perfect and you should just focus on getting all of your ideas out on paper. From there, you can trim and pick parts to keep and what to take out. First drafts are supposed to be bad and that’s okay. Realizing this has made me a much better writer.
One reading that I found unnecessary and could have been skipped was “The Pitfalls of Using Google Ngram to Study Language.” Although it was an interesting read, I had trouble connecting it back to the class and its purpose towards the course content. All of the other reading helped me gain a better understanding of DH and I would recommend continuing to use them for future classes.

  My favorite assignment throughout the semester was the CNU project. It was one of the more fun assignments I have done in college thus far. Going around campus and making my map brought back a lot of great memories and made me appreciate everything CNU has done for me. It was also my first time creating an interactive map and helped me realize what is considered a DH project and what is not. I highly recommend continuing to give this assignment out. The map I made on ThingLink was relatively simple and helped me realize how complex Dh projects can be. 
  
  Another assignment I thought was helpful in my understanding of DH and the class as a whole was the weekly tweets. Tweeting about the readings and assignments as well as replying to my classmates' tweets made me think harder and analyze each tweet more. It was also beneficial to read what other people had to say because many times my classmates made great points and had interesting thoughts that I did not even think about at first. 

  One assignment that I struggled with was Review One. I think this was a challenging assignment for me because it was my first review and I was not confident on what sections I should focus the most on. Also, my project was complex so it took awhile to go through every part of it to search for mistakes and useful aspects. After completing this assignment and getting feedback, I felt a lot more comfortable and confident when it was time to write Review Two.

  Looking back on myself as a writer from the beginning of the semester to now, I can say that I have definitely improved drastically. I think my biggest problem as a writer was I would tend to have wordy sentences that were unnecessary. This class had made a much more clear and concise writer. As a reader, I believe I have become more analytical in the sense that while I am reading I am trying to decipher what the author is trying to get across. In the past, I would tend to just read the whole thing and then go back afterwards to decide the purpose. Being able to analyze while I read saves much more time.

